# API - CHALLENGE


# Description

A simple API that stores a list of comments with anonymous authors and is able to retrieve as well as add to this database and list.

The table in the MySQL database stores anonymous author's comments in a column field named `content`. Each comment left will have an `id` that is autogenerated and autoincremented, as well as a `time` field that takes the current date/time that the POST request was made. 

## A Note On Versions 

Due to my stubborness and intention of preserving the fluid use of some of my music related softwares I am still running Mojave as my Mac OS. I discovered that there were some issues with my version of this older version of MySQL's client and that the only fix at the moment seemed to be importing `mysql2 (version 2.2.5)` instead of the expected `mysql (2.18.1)` in my app's main file -- `index.js`. 


## Instructions

1. Navigate to [repo] (https://github.com/tarynblakemiller/tbm-api-challenge)
2. Clone locally using 
 `git clone git@github.com:tarynblakemiller/tbm-api-challenge.git`
3. Install dependencies using `npm install`
4. Optionally run a modest seed file with the command `node seed.js`
5. Start your server with the command `npm run dev` 
6. Navigate to app in [browser] (http://localhost:5000)
7. Make GET, POST, and DELETE requests to the `localhost:5000/comments` endpoint and see the changes reflected in the database.



## Acceptance Criteria

The API was built with Node.js, a MySQL database, with routes written with Express in order to successfully make GET and POST requests that return the expected data. I was able to evade the use of an ORM, which I am more familiar with, however this is my first instance using Redis. With that said, I am almost certain that there is a more ideal implementation, and welcome feedback in hopes of implementing these changes. At the moment, I have the data being set and retrieved in the logic of my GET requests, with an expiration set to reset the cache at a timed interval. In this sense, in the conditional logic we can expect to hit the else statemtn and refresh the data in the cache. As I learn more about the way that Redis stores data, I am assuming that it would be best to set these keys and values in the logic of the POST request. In the interest of time, I am submitting a working solution, while knowing there is a way to optimize this further. 

## Bonus Criteria

Does not pass: 

* Given my present familiarity, I decided to proceed with the Express framework knowing that I would be needing to research a newer technologically.
* Graphql: a very essential technology to know in the industry at present, and I have a good understanding as to why it optimizes our querying operations and saves us from making costly time operations. I would love to come back to this especially! 

Pass:

* I implemented a route that allows for the deletion of a comment. I set each comments' (`content`) `id` property to be unique in the database so that we are able to target each one specifically. In a larger application with more functionality, authentication would play a large role, in order to make this route more secure. 



